So your life will always move in the direction of your strongest thought.
Realest shit I ever heard. Your life will always move in the direction of your strongest thought.
If you're thinking is bullshit, if you're thinking is robbing, stealing, cheating, lying,
Just living with the status quo, then that's the way your life will move.
But if you're thinking, your strongest thought is building, reinventing yourself,
Establishing family and businesses in a peaceful state of mind,
Then that's the way your life will move.
Your life will always move in the direction of your strongest thought.
Stay grinding. Stay focused.
Tony Kaizen:
Stay grounded and stay focused, man. And that's the message of the day.
What's up, everybody? This is Coffee with Kaizen number 35. I am your host, Tony Kaizen.
And the clip you just heard was from a man whose name I don't know,
Because I went on his profiles, his TikTok, his YouTube, and his name isn't really posted anywhere.
But if you want to check out more of his content,
You can find him on TikTok or YouTube at almosteverything630. That is almosteverything630.
Now, onto the point of the episode, the actual meat and potatoes, the real substance.
The message here is to be very careful what you think about.
Because your thoughts will lead you into a particular direction.
Your thoughts are literally creating your future because you think about something and then you do something.
So whatever you're thinking about naturally is gonna manifest itself in your actions and in your life experience.
At least that's what I believe.
And I saw this video two or three weeks ago on TikTok, and I saw it at the perfect time.
It's really amazing how so many times, man,
I'll be thinking about something for a few days and then a video related to that thing pops up on my TikTok feed.
It's really, really, really strange.
But like I said, I saw this video at the right time because actually, let me say it this way.
I'm going to give you an example so that you can really understand the message of this clip
And hopefully, apply the lesson to your own life and see some good results.
I'm trying to work on this new project or start this new project for Life in English,
And I really think it's going to be helpful for you guys and anybody else around the world learning English.
And it's a video project that we're going to put on YouTube.
The problem, though, is that I don't want to do it by myself. I technically could,
But it would be so much harder for so many reasons and I'll get into the project
And what it is and all that type of stuff in a different episode.
But I still want to use this project as an example.
So I really want to realize this project and I technically could do it alone but don't want to.
So I've been stressing for a couple of weeks now,
Trying to figure out how I'm going to get all the things I need to do this project.
And I saw this video and this man is saying, like,
Your life will move in the direction of your strongest thought.
And I've heard that idea said many different ways after reading many books, listening to many podcasts, and watching many videos.
So I understand the concept and I believe in it.
So after I watched that video, it was just like a nice little reminder to stay focused on exactly what I want and nothing more.
So after I watched it for like a week, maybe two weeks,
All I was thinking about was, Man, I need a cameraman. I need a cameraman for this project.
I need a cameraman. How the fuck am I going to find a cameraman?
Because I didn't, I don't have any friends that can help me with it.
And I don't really know any other creatives or professionals that can help me with this project.
So I'm kind of like stuck, you know? Or I was at least.
But just by focusing on what I really needed and what I wanted,
Which was a cameraman to work on this project, I started to ask myself,
How would I find this person?
Instead of focusing on what I don't have and focusing on the negativity like,
Shit, I don't have this person. I can't do this project. I don't have this. I can't do that.
Instead of thinking that way, I started to ask myself, Well, how could I do it?
What needs to happen for me to get this thing that I need?
And just by asking myself that question, my brain automatically starts trying to find the answer.
And I'm just focused on this one thing, this one thing.
I need this specifically. I want this specifically.
Just by focusing on that with every minute of free time that I have,
I started to experiment and find ways to find this person I'm looking for. You see what I'm saying?
So I'm putting job postings on different websites.
You know, I'm looking on Instagram trying to find people in my city that do the type of work I'm looking for.
Looking in all these different places. And not even a day later,
After doing all those job postings, I'm starting to get applications,
People that want to help me work on this project. You see what I'm saying?
And I wouldn't have been able to do that if I hadn't been focused on the right thing,
Which was finding this thing that I need to work on this project that I want to realize. You know?
And so now we've luckily found a couple of cameramen and we can get started very soon, actually.
And maybe that's not the best example, but hopefully, you get the point.
Is I was just so hyper-focused on finding this one thing that I needed,
That my brain just naturally starts looking for ways to get it because that's what I was focused on.
Since that's what I was focused on my actions or the intention of my actions was to find that thing and through my actions,
I brought that thing into my reality. Hopefully, that makes sense.
And it wasn't just the cameraman like,
This project that we're trying to work on involved a lot of thinking, a lot of planning.
You know, financial plans, because I need to hire employees to work on this project.
The aesthetic, the branding, how we're going to share the project with people.
What's the real value of this project?
How are we going to put it on the platforms, the editing style?
Like, how are we going to go above and beyond all the other people doing similar things?
How are we going to do it in a unique way, you know?
All these different questions are running through my head when thinking about this project.
But the point is I'm thinking about it. It's what I want to do the most.
So that's what I'm focused on. And slowly but surely,
Just start getting exposed to little bits of information or people
Or ideas that help me better prepare for this project we're trying to work on.
If I was focused on the negativity and all the things we don't have or couldn't do
Or the difficulties and this and that, then I would just be stuck there.
But since I'm focused on what I want, which is progress, moving forward, making shit happen, that's what happens.
So like the man was saying in the clip, if you're focused on negativity, being sneaky,
Hiding things, like being manipulative, being lazy and procrastinating,
Thinking about all the reasons you can't do something or all the reasons that this thing won't work,
That's the life experience you're going to have.
But if you focus on positivity, you know, bettering yourself, looking for better friends and relationships,
Being more productive, learning this new skill like English or learning how to start a business or whatever it is,
Whatever it is that you truly want, if you're focused on that, you're going to get it.
Obviously, you have to put in the work, but it starts with the thought process.
It starts with the mentality. That's what's important. You know?
So being very careful about the thoughts you choose to maintain
And focus on is extremely important for so many reasons, man. For so many reasons.
You have to make sure you're thinking about things the right way if you have
Or if you hope to have any chance of them actually happening. You know what I'm saying?
Now, one thing that's dangerous, though, is thinking too much. Right?
Because still using this project as the example,
What I noticed is that you can get a lot of pleasure from just thinking about doing something.
It could be a big project, learning a new language, starting a business, whatever it is,
Just by thinking about doing it, just by making plans to do it you feel like you're actually getting something done.
Because when we're planning this new project, this big thing, it's super exciting.
We know it's going to help a lot of people.
We know it's going to be a lot of fun making it or doing it in this case.
You get this rush of dopamine, right? Because the way I understand it,
Dopamine is like the reward system for the brain.
We do something good or fulfilling and we feel that dopamine,
Which is the reward, that great feeling you get from accomplishing something. We're doing something awesome.
So when we're doing these... Or excuse me, when we're making these plans the financial plans,
The marketing plans, the content plans, the editing, buying the equipment, you know,
Looking for the cameramen, all these things that we need to bring the project together, you know, bringing or...
Yeah, bringing together the, all the pieces of the vision.
I'm feeling all these, these rushes of dopamine.
I'm feeling super inspired, super excited to work on this thing.
But the problem is I noticed when we get to the point where it's like, actually time to do the work,
To go to this place and work on this project, I don't really feel like it anymore.
Because I've already gotten all the dopamine, all the psychological rewards, let's say, of planning the project.
Saying, we're going to do this, we're going to do that. Yeah, it's going to be fucking awesome.
We got this, this, this. Bam, bam, bam, we got the plan. Blah, blah, blah.
It feels amazing. You feel super inspired and ready to just fucking conquer the world,
But when it comes time to actually do it, you've already gotten the reward as if you have done it.
So there's no reason to do it. You see what I'm saying?
You spent so much time thinking about doing it. You got the reward.
But now it's time to do it. And you're like, I don't know. Maybe later.
Maybe we need to do some more planning. I need to do some more research.
I need to do some more thinking.
And you just get stuck in that place. Very dangerous.
So I agree 100% with what this man is saying is your life will move in the direction of your strongest thought.
But what I would caution you to do is be very careful about how long you think.
And it's really, it's really hard to figure out what that amount of time should be because it's all subjective,
Because you do need to think before you act.
You do need to make a plan if you have any hope of actually realizing a project.
However, being careful about how long you think about these things is extremely important.
Because you don't want to get stuck in that place where you're just planning all the time,
Compulsively thinking and planning, but never doing. At some point, you have to take action.
So think deeply about your project, your plan, your objective.
Make a plan, and then immediately, as soon as possible just fucking start doing it.
Even if you don't feel ready, even if you think you don't have every single thing you need,
Getting started as soon as possible, in my opinion,
Is the best way to have the highest chance of achieving your goal, whatever that may be.
You don't want to get stuck in that, that place where you're just thinking about shit,
Feeling a bunch of dopamine because you think...
Because you spend the same amount of mental energy thinking about something that you do actually doing something,
Which is why it's kind of fucked up because you spend so much energy
And you get so much dopamine from just thinking about realizing this project that when it comes time to do it,
You have no, no, let's say, inspiration. You don't feel like doing it.
And I found myself there recently, kind of just thinking about doing the actual project and it's like...
Just don't feel not motivation because I have a reason to do it,
But feel no inspiration to actually get up and go do it.
Hopefully, I'm making sense here. I feel like I'm being redundant at this point,
But it's just something I wish I would have learned sooner and something that I feel a lot of people don't talk about enough.
Because you do need to focus on what you want.
You do need to think about it and make a plan. But then you take action.
That's the next step. You need to do that as soon as possible. You know what I mean?
So, I guess now is a good time. I want to play one more clip from a different person,
From a legendary rapper from right here in Atlanta, Georgia, named Gucci Mane.
G U C C I, Gucci. Mane, M A N E. Gucci Mane.
And I got this clip from an interview he did. And he's talking about the same subject,
The importance of your thought process and what you think about. Ok?
So I'm going to play that clip now and then we'll continue.
Gucci Mane:
Watch what you think about. You are your thoughts.
You know, if you just like, nobody can, nobody's in your head, be self-aware.
If you're really self-aware and really responsible in your head, man,
If you hold yourself accountable, everybody going to see it.
You ain't got to say nothing. You come and tell me,
"Bro, I finna change my life. I finna start losing weight."
The first time I'm excited for him. The second time I'm encouraging.
The third time, don't tell me no more. Because now you just cap.
The more you keep saying you got...
But if you just, if you told me one time, then I seen you slimmer.
And then you tell me another time, "Hey, I don't want to go to dinner. I'm good."
You ain't got to say nothing. Now I see it.
You get what I'm saying? So that's the whole thing.
Tony Kaizen:
All right. The first thing I want to say is don't feel bad if you couldn't understand everything that he was saying,
Because he does have like a pretty strong Atlanta accent, you know, that Southern accent.
And he was speaking a little bit fast and, you know, he was kind of speaking Ebonics.
It wasn't like standard English at times,
So don't feel bad if you couldn't understand everything and remember it,
Just read the transcript and you'll get all the explanations you need.
And if you do have more questions, just hit me up on Discord. All right?
But back to what he was saying. You need to really be careful about your thoughts.
You need to watch what you think about.
I don't necessarily agree with the idea that you are your thoughts,
Because thoughts are just thoughts. We don't really know where they come from.
Sometimes you think without trying to think and I don't know if it's clear,
I don't know if it's certain that those thoughts are you.
I think you are the actions you take, not the thoughts that you have. Right?
Because a lot of us think about a lot of crazy shit, a lot of dark shit.
It doesn't mean that we do those things. You see what I'm saying?
Thoughts are potential. I think actions are real.
But anyway, the point is still the same. You need to be very careful about your thoughts.
Because your thoughts will lead you in a particular direction,
Whether you like it or not. You see what I'm saying?
And going back to what Gucci Mane was saying,
what I would recommend you to do is stop talking about the shit you're going to do.
And this goes back to the point I was trying to make earlier.
Because you get that same hit of dopamine, you get the same feeling of accomplishment,
The reward, you still get that just by saying you're going to do something.
If you keep telling everybody, I'm going to learn English,
I'm going to learn English, I'm going to learn English.
Every time you do that, you get a hit of dopamine and you feel like you've accomplished something.
And everybody says, Oh, that's great, man. Good for you. Congratulations. Good luck, blah, blah, blah.
You feel good about it. But then you have no reason to do it because you've already gotten the reward for just talking about it.
But then after just talking about it comes the real hard part, which is actually doing it, you see?
And since you've already gotten the reward for doing it, why would you then go and actually do it?
You wouldn't, and most people never do.
Because most people just talk and talk and talk about what they're going to do.
And hardly ever about what they've done. You see what I'm saying?
So like Gucci Mane was saying, let's use losing weight as an example.
You say, "I'm going to change my life and lose all this weight. I'm going to be healthier".
You're telling everybody that and it feels amazing. Everybody's like, Go for it, man. Congratulations.
That's important. We all want to see you do better, blah, blah, blah. You feel amazing.
But then you keep eating fucking fast food and you keep sitting on the couch all day and smoking cigarettes, whatever it is.
Because there's no reason to actually change now that you told everybody you're going to change and everybody congratulated you for it.
You got the reward.
But instead of talking about it, if you just did it.
And then people start to notice the results and compliment you and say, Damn, man, you're getting slimmer.
You're losing weight. What are you doing different?
Then you start to get the reward for the actions you've already taken. You understand?
By that time you've built up momentum.
You're already in the process of doing this thing or making this change.
So when people notice or start talking about it, you're already on the path to success.
You're already there.
So any feeling of dopamine that you get from people's comments
Or being able to show people that you're doing the thing instead of just talking about it, it's like a bonus. You understand?
You don't fucking get to eat your fucking dessert first. Not if you want to be successful.
It's meat, fucking vegetables, the main dish, the real meal, and then dessert.
Then you get cookies and ice cream and cake and all that, that fun shit that tastes amazing.
You understand? Business first, then we play. Work first, then we play.
We do it and then we show it and then we talk about it. You understand?
To me, it's a much better way to go about doing things,
Which is why I haven't really talked too much about this new project I want to work on,
Because I know the more I talk about it, the lower the chance that I actually do it.
I would much rather just get started, work on it, see if it's even going to work,
Get some results, get some traction, get some momentum and then tell you about it.
Look at this cool thing we're doing, not this cool thing we're going to do.
And there's so many reasons to do that because there's also the chance when you go around telling everybody,
I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, and then you don't do it.
Now you look like a fucking idiot.
Everybody's like, Oh, he's just capping, just talking.
And that's your reputation now. That's how people know you,
Because you chose to just talk, talk, talk, talk, talk. Then you never did it.
So now the next time you talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, nobody's going to believe you.
You went back on your word, you know?
So it's better to just do shit and then tell people you've done it.
Because then you don't need to say anything. You know what I'm saying?
You speak with your actions. And to me, that's a much better way of going about achieving goals in life.
You just do the shit. Think to yourself, make a plan,
Tell whoever is involved in realizing that plan, and then just go do the shit.
Then you show everybody what I've done, not what I'm going to do.
Everybody is going to do something, eventually.
It could be tomorrow. It could be next week. It could be next year.
But you are doing shit. Because you understand there's no time to waste.
You understand that we don't just talk about it, like most people, right?
We have this phrase or this expression where I'm from, we say, "Don't talk about it, be about it".
And what that means is don't just tell everybody this is my lifestyle, this is what I'm about, this is who I am.
You show people. You don't need to say anything,
Just like Gucci Mane was saying in the video or the clip if you just start going to the gym and eating better and start losing weight,
People are going to notice. I see you're achieving your goal.
You don't have to tell me anything.
I think a lot of us have just formed this bad habit, especially these days,
Where we can share our entire lives on the Internet if we really want to.
We're telling everybody what we're going to do. We're just talking because things sound good.
But actually doing the shit is something different, you know?
So I don't want to ramble or be too redundant.
So I'm going to end this in summary by saying... Or excuse me,
I think a better way to say that is I'm going to summarize by saying you really need to pay attention to what you're thinking about.
Because your life will move in the direction of your strongest thought.
And when I say "strongest thought", I mean whatever you think about the most.
Whatever thoughts or ideas you maintain at the forefront of your mind.
That's the direction in which your life will go.
And the good and the bad news is you get to make that choice every second of every day.
What are you going to think about? What are you choosing to focus on?
I cannot stress enough how important this idea is, bro.
Watch what you think about. And if you want better, then choose to think better.
If you don't really give a fuck, then shut off this podcast, ignore everything I'm saying.
But I know, I'm almost certain, let's say, that you want better for yourself.
You need to know if that's what you want, then you need to think better for yourself.
Plan better and then take action. Do not get stuck in the thinking or planning phase.
That infinite feedback loop where you're constantly patting yourself on the back saying,
Yeah, I'm going to do this thing, it's going to be awesome. And then you never do it, right?
This is my recommendation to you, man. Be very careful about your thought process.
Pay very close attention to what you're thinking about.
And remember, until you take action, all those thoughts and words mean nothing. You know what I'm saying?
Don't talk about it, be about it.
This is Coffee with Kaizen number 35, my friends.
Hopefully, you enjoyed the episode and got some cool things to think about.
I'd love to start a conversation about this subject on Discord. So hit me up, man.
Once you listen to the episode, tell me what you think. All right?
But that's it for now, my friend.
As I said, this is Coffee with Kaizen number 35 in the books.
I'm your host, Tony Kaizen. And I'll talk to you soon.
Peace!